Good morning.
I'm glad to see that everybody
made it here on Friday,
very early morning session
after the beer bash.
My name is Nicole Jacque,
and I'm with the Directory Server and
Sharing Technologies group at Apple.
And the first thing that I want to just
point out is that I did this last year.
How many people came to
my session last year?
Oh, good.
Lots of return--returnees.
I must not have done too
bad of a job last year.
So last year,
it turned out to be pretty popular
that I did session notes for you guys
and put them up on the attendees site.
And I've done the same thing this year.
And last year, there were some problems
finding them on the site,
so I just thought I'd
point out where they are.
So if you log into the attendees site,
go to this session.
They're actually called, I believe,
release notes, but they're actually just
session notes for this session.
So the idea here is instead of you guys
having to try and scribble as fast as you
can or type all the commands and various
things that I have up on the slide,
I've tried to provide as much of
this as I can in the notes for you,
so you should be able to just
refer to the notes afterwards.
Okay, so I take it you like this,
the notes.
Okay.
Just checking.
And then I thought I'd also
point out that last year's notes
are actually still available.
They actually got moved out to the
regular attendees' site--or sorry,
the regular developer site.
You can get to them by navigating
to OS X Server Networking,
or you can follow this link here
if you can actually remember it.
And the reason I point out that last
year's notes are available is I'm
going to try to not cover the same
set of things that I covered last year
because you can go watch my session
from last year on the ADC iTunes site.
So this year,
what we're going to cover is we're
going to first talk about extending
Directory Services with a particular
emphasis on what's new in Leopard
and what's actually going to be
particularly useful for people like you,
people that are system administrators,
people that are trying to
solve particular problems
with Directory Services.
I'm going to talk about some new
troubleshooting information that you're
going to want to know about Leopard.
And then I'm also going to take you
through five of what we think are
probably the most common troubleshooting
scenarios that we see with Leopard
so that you get five hopefully
relevant troubleshooting scenarios.
And then I'm also going to take you
through five of what we think are
probably the most common troubleshooting
scenarios that we see with Leopard
so that you get five hopefully relevant
troubleshooting scenarios that you
can use to solve particular problems.
And then I'm also going to take you
through five of what we think are
probably the most common troubleshooting
scenarios that we see with Leopard
so that you get five hopefully relevant
troubleshooting scenarios that you
can use to solve particular problems.
relevant troubleshooting scenarios
that you'll get to go through here.
So we're going to start out by talking
about extending directory services.
And when we talk about this,
mostly I'm going to be using
as my example of the directory
service that we're going to be
extending as Active Directory.
And I use this just because
for a large number of you,
that is what you are
going to be talking about.
But everything that I'm talking about
also applies to Open Directory as
your directory that you're going
to extend for certain things,
like your own web server or some
other third-party LDAP server.
So even when I'm saying Active Directory,
this extends to other
directory services as well.
So if we're going to talk about
extending directory service,
the first thing we should think about is,
well, why would we need to do this?
And the things that people usually
want to accomplish with extending
directory service is they want to
provide some client management for
OS X users logging in on clients that
are logging in with accounts from
some other directory service like AD,
where we don't have the built-in
managed client functionality
that we have with Open Directory.
The other thing that people want to
do is they want to use OS X Server,
and they want to provide extra
services to these users from
the other directory service.
And sometimes these services
actually require per-user
configuration that actually
needs to live in the user record.
So you need a way to do this.
And so we've always had
a couple of solutions.
And the first one was
just schema extension.
You need a place to
store some information,
so let's add some attributes,
let's add some object classes,
and then we can go ahead and
store the information there.
The second method that people have
started using is something called the
Magic Triangle or the Golden Triangle.
And these are two things that
have been out there and they've
been around for a while.
How many people are using
one or both of these--Schema
Extension or Magic Triangle?
So a lot of you are pretty
familiar with this already,
even if you're not using it.
So we're not going to talk real
in-depth about these because there's
actually lots of you using it already.
There's good documentation
out there on this.
What we're going to spend most of our
time talking about here is the new
way of extending Directory Services,
which is augmented records.
But we're going to start by just
going quickly through Schema
Extension and Magic Triangle so
that you can then understand what
augmented records do for you.
So we're going to start
with Schema Extension.
This was the first method of
Directory Services extending
that people did.
They went ahead and they went and added
extra object classes that Apple uses,
put them in Active Directory or
their other Directory server,
and then they could just go
ahead and store all their
information in Active Directory.
And this is pretty great because
all of your Directory data
is stored in one place.
You can continue to leverage
your existing Directory service.
So if you've got Active Directory and
you've got all of your domain
controllers set up and they're
replicating all over the place,
you can just leverage all of that.
You don't have to duplicate anything.
All of your data is still
stored in one place.
When you back that up,
you're backing up all
of your data together.
So that's pretty cool,
and the nice thing is that you don't
actually lose the ability to use
things like Workgroup Manager and all
of the Mac-like ways of managing this.
Once you've extended the schema,
you can use Workgroup Manager to set your
managed client preferences and so on.
And it's not too hard to do if you
have a set of scripts so that you don't
have to type every single OID number,
which are numbers about this long.
And we actually have these scripts,
and if you talk to your SE for
your account or you talk to
Apple Professional Services,
they can provide you with these scripts,
or Apple Professional Services can
actually come out to your
site and do it for you.
So literally,
it comes down to almost just
a double-click in terms of
actual work required to do this.
So if this is so great, well,
why doesn't everybody do it?
Well, the first problem is that
you're modifying the schema.
And this is a forest-wide change.
And so you need enterprise admin
rights in Active Directory to do this.
Which means not only do you need the
actual enterprise admin to do it,
but you also need their
agreement to do it.
And sometimes this is more of a
political issue than a technical issue.
Because for some reason,
your general Active Directory admin
may not want to just say,
"Oh, I've got these scripts.
Will you just run them for me
on your domain controller?"
They don't seem to like that idea.
And so they want to look at them.
And so this can take some time.
A lot of you have pretty lengthy
approval processes for making
anything that's a forest-wide change.
And in some cases, the answer is,
for just about anything, no.
We're not going to mess with
the schema in Active Directory.
Also, in Windows 2000,
the original version of Active Directory,
this was a little scarier
because you couldn't back out
any of your schema changes.
You can actually do that now,
but that misconception still exists
out there that once you put in a
schema change in Active Directory,
it's permanent.
You can't get out of it.
The other problem here is that even
once you have the schema extended,
to actually store this
information in Active Directory,
you still need admin
rights to Active Directory.
And in a lot of cases,
just the way in which your
IT departments are structured,
your Mac guys are over here,
your Windows guys and your
Active Directory guys are over here,
and your Mac guys don't have
admin rights to Active Directory,
and so the Mac guys who would normally
be the people putting in the managed
preferences and stuff like that,
they don't have admin rights to
Active Directory to do this and
may not be able to get them.
So again, it comes down to essentially
maybe more of a political
problem than a technical issue.
So to get around this,
people came up with a strategy
called the Magic Triangle.
And what the magic triangle is,
essentially,
is a setup where you have a Mac server,
a Mac client, and Active Directory,
and they're bound together such that
You have a server which is bound
first to AD and then to itself
as an Open Directory master.
And what you want to do here is you
want to actually bind to AD first,
then create your Open Directory master.
The Open Directory process
will recognize that,
"Oh, hey, you're bound to AD.
We've got a KDC over there.
We don't need to bring up our
own KDC." So that is normal
to not see the KDC running.
And then after you bind to AD,
you're going to want to kerberize
your services for Active Directory,
so you would run dsconfigad-enablesso.
So you've got the server bound
to AD and bound to the client,
and then you have the client that is
bound to AD and to Open Directory,
and so you get this lovely
little triangle shape.
Once you have this set up
with your clients bound to
Active Directory and Open Directory and
your Open Directory server set up,
the actual management is pretty simple.
You just create Open Directory groups,
you put some managed
client preferences on them,
and then you can add
Active Directory users or
Active Directory groups into
this Open Directory group.
And then when the user logs
in on one of these clients,
as long as they're bound
to both Directory services,
they'll get whatever's been applied
to the Open Directory group.
So the great thing about the
Magic Triangle is you don't need any
help from your Active Directory admin.
As long as you can bind
machines to Active Directory,
they don't need to do
anything special for you.
So your AD admins really
love this configuration.
The other thing is that it gives you the
majority of what everybody wants here.
You can manage your client
with per computer or computer
lists or computer groups,
and you can do group-based
management for users.
And most of the time,
for client management stuff,
you don't want to manage
each user individually,
so that's really not an issue.
The problem here is that
if you do need to do that,
or you have some service
that you want to run,
like, for example, the new collaboration,
you can run the collaboration
services in Leopard,
iCal Server, or the Wiki Server.
You actually can't run those with
AD users because there's some extra
information that needs to be in that user
record that they're not going to have.
And you can't edit because
you're not adding anything
back into Active Directory.
So we need a solution
that solves this problem.
And what we came up with for Leopard
was this idea of augmented records.
And really, augmented records is not
some totally new thing.
It's basically here as some way to
give you a way to create pieces of
information that need to be stored
in a record without having to write
back to this other directory server.
So primarily,
the two services that you think of with
this are iCal Server and Wiki Server.
And this is really Magic Triangle Plus.
Now, you may have heard somebody--by
which I mean Joel--call this
the Cylinder of Destiny.
We're not going to use silly
things like that because,
you know,
if we were going to go Magic Triangle
into another dimension,
it should be like a pyramid or something,
but I don't know.
So the Magic Triangle Plus
And what it lets you do is essentially
tag some record from some other directory
service--Active Directory or another
Open Directory server or something like
that--and add some information to it.
But you're not writing it back
into the other directory server.
You're storing it on your
Open Directory server.
It's kind of like you're adding
like a sticky note to something.
You're not actually changing something.
You're just saying, "Oh,
I got some more information about this."
And then the magic happens
in the search node,
which actually takes the
information from the other service,
like Active Directory,
and the information from
your Open Directory server,
and brings the two together,
makes it look like one big record,
as long as you go
through the search node.
And the services that
are querying for it,
they don't even know that
augmented records are in play.
They just query the search node and
magically all the information is there.
The new bit about this is that
originally when we shipped Leopard,
the only way that you got
augments through the GUI without
doing things manually yourself
was using the workgroup config.
And we've actually
expanded that as of 10.5.3,
which shipped a few weeks ago.
We now support augmented
records in Workgroup Manager in
Advanced Server Mode.
So we're giving you a little more
flexibility about how you can use these.
There are a few caveats here.
One is if you have an
augmented value for a record,
you can't search on that
because that's not actually
in the directory that it's in.
And searching for everything
through the search node for
this was pretty expensive,
so right now we do not support
search on augmented values.
It only works with the search node.
So if you have some application
or some service that is not using
the search node for some reason,
if it's going and talking
directly to the other server,
it's not going to see
the augmented records.
And so if you're writing applications
where you might want to let people
take advantage of augmented records,
make sure that you're going through
the search node in Directory Services.
The other thing here is that you cannot
use this to replace an existing value.
So if there's already a
value for some record,
say somebody already has their
phone number in the directory,
you can't give them a
different phone number.
You can only give them, for example,
a new phone number.
You can't overwrite.
The idea here is we don't want
to replace existing values,
just give you an opportunity
to put more data in.
So let's just take a quick look at
what this looks like conceptually.
If we have an Active Directory server
and we have our Open Directory server,
and in Active Directory we
have a few user records,
and we have Scott and Henry and Nicole,
and I want to use some services
on an Open Directory server.
So we go ahead,
we can create this augmented record
either using Server Preferences
or Workgroup Manager,
and we add some information
for the augmented,
so that's going to be used
for iCal and Wikiserver.
And this actually gets created as
an augment record in Open Directory.
We haven't changed anything
back in Active Directory.
So now what happens when things
actually use Directory Service,
we query for Nicole and
we query the AD node.
What we're going to get back is
just the information that's in AD,
no augmented information.
If we search the LDAP node,
the Open Directory node, for Nicole,
we're going to get no such user.
Because, we're going to get a new user.
And this is because there's not actually
a user record for me in Open Directory,
there's just an augment information.
So it's an augment record,
not a user record,
without the actual user record,
it doesn't actually mean anything.
Then the magic all happens if
you go through the search node.
Directory Services says, "Oh, hey,
I know I've got augmented records here.
I better go check and see if there's
any extra information." And what it will
actually return is a record for me with
all of my information from both nodes.
So my Active Directory information,
my Wiki server, my iCal Server,
all my augmented information.
In the GUI, what this looks like,
if you're in workgroup mode,
you actually use server preferences.
It's called importing a user.
That basically just means create
an augment record for the user.
You can bring them in.
You can add some information for them.
And now, as of 10.5.3,
you can do this also in advanced mode.
And you use Work Group Manager.
There's a new menu item for
Create Augmented User Record.
So you can search for your user,
or you can search for a group full
of users that you want to augment.
And the best practices here
are basically the same as what
you have for Magic Triangle.
Because this is not
some totally new config,
this is Magic Triangle Plus.
So you're going to bind to AD first,
then you're going to
create your OD Master.
You won't have a KDC running
on the OD Master.
You still want to
Kerberize your services.
One thing to look out for here is,
especially if you've already
got this Magic Triangle set up,
and then you go and you
create these augment records,
until you restart
Directory Service on these clients,
if they've been bound already and then
you just go create the augment records,
until you restart Directory Service,
the clients will not see
the augment information.
So after that first time when
you create the augment records,
you're going to need a reboot
of clients or you just need
to restart Directory Service,
which you can do with
pseudo-kill-all Directory Service.
So now let's talk a little
bit more in depth here,
because we've done some nice
pretty pictures and everything.
How does this all actually work?
Well, what we have is there's actually a
record called Augment Configuration
that lives in the config
container in Open Directory.
And it contains information
about the Augment node,
which is the node that is going
to store the Augment information,
in other words, Open Directory.
The Augmented node,
which is the other node,
so Active Directory or
some other foreign server.
And then the Augmented attributes.
So for every record type--and
you can use Augmented records,
by the way, for records other than users.
Right now, mostly that's what
people are using it for,
but there's no reason
it's restricted to this.
But you actually need to, in here,
configure which attributes you can
augment for particular record types.
And what this actually looks like is,
not terribly surprisingly,
it's an XML plist.
And you can see in this,
you can see the directories that we have
for the Augment Directory Node Name.
That's the directory that we
are storing the OD information,
the augments.
The Augmented Directory Node Name is
the directory that we are augmenting,
in this case Active Directory.
And in this case, and by default,
the only attribute that we have set
up for you to augment is the services
locator attribute on the user records.
Once you have this set up,
you have augmented records in play.
Directory Services knows to
look for augmented records.
And you can go ahead and
create augment records.
These are stored in your LDAP Node,
your Open Directory Node,
under the Augments container.
And they are stored in a record
name format of record_data.
And you can type: record_name.
So if it's a record for me,
it would be users: Nicole.
So if you were to use DSCL and take a
look inside your Augments container,
you might see a bunch
of records like this.
If you read one of these records,
what you see is not all of the
information from Active Directory,
because we're not trying to
copy all of this information,
just the information that we
want to add to the record.
And the main reason that people
are augmenting things is for
the iCal and Wiki Server.
So what they actually require is this
attribute called Services Locator,
which looks like this.
That's the main thing that people
are currently using Augments for.
We're going to talk about some
other ways you can use Augments.
But what Augments gives you the ability
to do is you have this centralized
directory server and you might have
a couple different departments and each
department wants their own Wiki server
and they want their own iCal server.
So they can go ahead,
they can set these up,
they can pull in users from AD,
they can augment them,
they don't need any help
from the AD administrator.
Everything's great.
But I want to give you a little bit
more complicated of an example of
how you might use augmented records.
So let's say that one
of your departments,
say maybe your art department,
where you have users that they
need a lot of disk storage.
And in Active Directory,
You probably have some home directory
already given to all of your users
that your AD admins have assigned.
It's stored somewhere centrally,
but a lot of times it's not real big.
Maybe they only give them
a couple hundred megabytes.
And this art department goes out,
buys a nice brand-new Promise RAID,
connects it to their XServe, and says,
"I want to use this for my users,
and I want them to get it for
their home directory." Well...
How do you do that without, for example,
having to go back and
edit Active Directory?
Hmm.
Well,
you can use augmented records to do this,
and here's how.
First thing you need
to do--and by the way,
all of these steps are in
the session notes for you,
so you don't have to worry too much about
trying to scribble too much down here.
First thing you need to do and the
first thing you're going to say is,
"Wait a minute.
A few slides ago,
you said we can't actually replace
a value that's already there." Well,
that's true, but in the AD plugin,
you can actually disable reading the home
directory path from Active Directory.
So if we're not reading it,
it's not there.
So you just disable the use
UNC path from Active Directory.
You can do it either in
the GUI or with DSConfigAD.
So now there's essentially,
as far as Directory Services is
concerned,
there's no home directory.
So we can augment it.
So the next thing you want to do is
set up your Magic Triangle config,
same way you normally would.
And because we're going to do
home directories here the way
we've always done them with OS X,
you need a mount record in
Open Directory for the SharePoint that's
going to have the home directories.
So create your mount record.
Then go ahead, and I'm going to show you
the manual way to do this.
Now, if you were going to do
this for lots of users,
you'd want to, of course, script this,
but once you know where
all the pieces are,
it's not so hard to do.
So you want to go ahead,
augment a user in Workgroup Manager.
This will actually create
your augment config record,
and it will also create an
augmented record for the user
that you're working with.
And then because we're going to
be augmenting attributes that
aren't normally in the default
config for what you can augment,
we're going to go ahead,
we're going to edit the augment config
record in the augment container,
and we're going to say, okay,
for the user's record type,
in addition to services locator,
we want to be able to augment home
directory and NFS home directory,
which if you guys are all
familiar with directory services,
those are the standard attributes
that store home directory information.
So we do that.
And then you can go ahead
and in Inspector Mode,
or you could do it with
DSCL or whatever tool you like,
you're going to actually go
ahead and just add these two
attributes to the augment record.
So you're going to add
Apple User Home URL,
which is the home directory attribute,
and home directory, which is actually the
NFS home directory attribute.
And these are going to contain
the standard information that you
have for OS X home directories.
So you'll have the sort of XML-looking,
like, home directory path that tells
you where it is on the network.
And then for NFS home directory,
you'll have the Unix file path to
where the home directory is once
it's been mounted on the client.
So once you've done all of this,
you need to restart Directory Service,
and then you can go
ahead and on the client,
log in,
and it will see all of this information
as the user's home directory.
And it'll mount it in whatever fashion,
like network home directories or
mobile accounts or so on that you want.
So this is just to give you a slightly
more complex example of how you might put
this into play in your own infrastructure
to solve particular problems.
You could also use this if
you have your own custom apps,
for example, that you don't want to write
stuff back to Active Directory.
You could store it locally or
just to solve any other problems
with Directory Service that might
have this kind of a problem.
So now that we've talked about
extending Directory Services,
we're going to talk about how you
troubleshoot Directory Services because
sometimes things don't
quite go the way you expect.
You might have experienced that.
And the first thing,
because we're going to focus here
mostly on stuff new in Leopard,
but we always, always,
always--we've got to talk about
Directory Service debugging,
right?
We've got to talk about
how you get that debug log.
And the basic stuff here has not changed.
You still get debugging
turned on by sending the USR1
signal to Directory Services.
You can do a pseudo kill-all
USR1 Directory Service.
That turns it on until the next
restart of Directory Service.
And sometimes that works out,
but if you've got Directory Service,
for example, crashing a lot or you're
going to be doing a lot of
rebooting and stuff like that,
it's kind of tedious to
have to keep going in and
turning on Directory Service.
Or maybe you want debugging on right away
from boot if it's a boot time problem.
So then you can actually create a
flag file which is .dslogdebugatstart.
And this has to live in library
preferences Directory Service.
You can use the touch
command to create this.
This will turn
Directory Service debugging on as
soon as Directory Service comes up.
And as always,
the logs file is still in library logs,
directory service,
directoryservice.debug.log.
And we actually roll these
logs so you don't have to worry
about these logs growing to be
gigabytes and gigabytes in size.
We'll just roll them after a
couple of megs and so you'll see
directoryservice.debug.log.1,
.2 and so on.
And you don't have to worry about leaving
this on for an extended period of time.
You won't end up filling
up your hard drive.
But what is new here?
is that we have added debugging
levels to Directory Service debugging
because we actually put a lot
of information in the debug log.
And sometimes it's too much
and sometimes it's not enough.
So now we're gonna let you actually
kind of control that a little bit.
So the levels are 0 through 7,
with 0 being off.
The default when you turn on
Directory Service debugging is set to 5.
This is all stored in the
DirectoryServiceDebug.plist file,
which is in Library Preferences
Directory Service.
So you could edit that file yourself,
or you could use the defaults
command to read and write it.
You will need to restart
Directory Services after you change
this in order for it to take effect,
though.
So this is all important if
you're going to be doing some
troubleshooting or if you're going to
be setting up and filing a bug report.
One of the first things
I'm sure you all know,
anybody that's ever talked to
me for troubleshooting help,
what's the first thing I ask you for?
It's a debug log.
The next thing that I want to talk
about is something that a lot of people
have sort of noticed on their own,
We never really had
talked about it last year,
so I want to cover it this year.
We've changed some of the
Kerberos config files in Leopard.
And Kerberos, as we all know,
is really important for Leopard,
for OS X in general.
Everything we are trying to move
authentication-wise to Kerberos.
So in Directory Services,
it's really important.
And if you had, for example,
a Tiger machine and it was bound to
Open Directory and Active Directory in
this magic triangle configuration,
if you looked at your
edu.mit.kerberos file,
which is in library preferences,
you'd see something like this.
You'd have all this Realm information
and then you have a bunch
of other sections and--well,
Everything was just all in this one file.
And then you upgrade to Leopard.
You're looking to maybe solve
a problem or you're just poking
around to see what's new.
You take a look at this file.
I'm kind of missing something here.
Where'd all those realms go?
The only realm that you'll see
now in the edu.mit.kubaros file
is the Open Directory realm.
But we're still--if you're using
the Active Directory plugin,
we're still using Kerberos.
We must know about this.
Where do we put it?
Well,
the answer is we actually have written
a plug-in for Kerberos that lets
us store all this information in
the local Directory Service store.
So if you look in the config container
of your local Directory Service,
the DSLocal node, you'll see a bunch of
records that are Kerberos,
colon, and then your Realm name.
So all the Realm-specific
stuff has been moved here.
And if we actually look at one of these,
the information here is basically
the same stuff that we used
to store in edu.mit.kirbros.
We've got your KPassword server
and your Kerberos server.
So if you're actually
looking for any information,
you want to make sure that the
configuration is correct and so on,
this is now where you need
to look for that information.
The other thing that's important
here is if you have a problem and
you want to talk to us about it,
you want to file a bug
or something like that,
well,
That's all information that
we're going to need now.
So when you're filing a bug report,
which you can do bugreporter.apple.com,
or if you're talking to AppleCare,
Make sure that if you have a
problem that you suspect is
Kerberos/Directory Service related,
make sure you give us not only
your edu.mit.kerberos file
like you always used to do,
but also just do a DSCL read-all
of the local node config container
and give us all that information
because that's actually where
your Kerberos information is now.
And as always, just a reminder,
if you have a Directory Service problem,
pretty much no matter what it is,
if you can give us a debug log,
that will save us having to
come back to you and say,
"Please give us a debug log."
So I thought I'd just remind you.
I know you all would, of course,
the first thing you would do
is just get us a debug log,
but just in case.
So, having talked about that,
some general Directory Service debugging,
we're going to talk more specifically
about the Active Directory plugin.
How many people here use
the Active Directory plugin?
Okay, so pretty popular.
We've actually made a bunch
of architectural changes in
Leopard to the AD plugin.
One of the things we've done is we've
added domain and policy caching.
This is to try to prevent some delays
when you go on and off your network.
Before,
we would have to sit and try and query
and find out this information when you
tried to go on and off the network,
and if the servers weren't there,
we could wait for a long time.
So we've just cached
this information now.
Another thing that we've done is
there's a lot of people that have
pretty large domains and forests
with lots and lots of domains.
And previously what we did is
when we bound or every time we
tried to redo our configuration,
we'd go out and we'd
query the entire forest.
Even though you might only be
talking to one domain ever,
we'd go look everywhere
in the entire forest.
And that could generate a lot of
traffic if you were binding a lot of
machines and it could maybe be going
out across some slow links because
maybe you had some domains that
were only for some isolated places.
You just didn't want that
extra traffic out there.
So we've gone to more of
an on-demand configuration.
We don't put in configuration and query
servers unless we're actually going
to be using that domain for something.
We've added dynamic DNS registration.
So when you bind to AD,
we actually will update the
dynamic DNS on your AD server.
The one catch here is that currently
we only do forward DNS for you here.
The pointer record will not be created.
And then finally, like I said,
we have taken advantage of
this new Kerberos plugin,
and we store all of our
Kerberos information in
DSLocal now for the AD plugin.
We have a few new dsconfig.ad options.
We added packet signing and encryption.
This would be the packet
sign and packet encrypt.
You can set this to allow, disable,
or require.
By default, it's set to allow,
which means that if your server is
configured to allow you to do it,
packet signing and encryption will be on.
One thing to keep in mind here, however,
for troubleshooting purposes,
is that if you have to do
something that requires a TCP dump,
either to send to us or you
just want to look at it,
it's probably not going to be real useful
with packet signing and encryption on.
You're not going to be
able to read anything.
You're just going to be able to
see where the packets are going.
So for troubleshooting purposes,
a lot of times it may be useful to
actually disable this temporarily
so that you can get a packet
trace and see what's going on.
Another thing that we've added is
we've heard that a lot of people needed
to be able to change the computer
trust account password periodically,
either because you had
auditors come in and say,
"You've got to do this,"
or because in some cases,
your Active Directory admins were
using this the last time that a
password was set for a computer
account as a sign of whether or not
that computer account was still active.
And so some of you had, like,
scripts on your AD server that were
going through and disabling all of your
Mac accounts periodically because they
hadn't changed their password recently.
So we've added the pass
interval option to dsconfig-ad.
It takes the number of days
that you would like to have
it change the password after.
By default, this is set to 14 days.
Zero means off,
or anything under one will go to zero.
And this is something you
want to set at bind time.
Otherwise,
your default is going to be 14 days.
And finally,
we also have a new option to help out
those of you with maybe very large,
complex domains.
And in some cases,
these may be domains that kind of
came together kind of after the fact.
And the admin over here and the
admin over there weren't really
talking to each other before.
And so you've got users with the same
short name in these different domains.
Well,
that doesn't really cause you a problem
in Windows because in Windows you log in
specifically against a particular domain.
But in OS X, because we look at all the
domains that you're connected to,
this would cause collisions.
So you could either try to get
people to change their names or try
to only look at a particular domain.
Sometimes that would work for you.
But if you needed to allow people
to log in against any domain,
sometimes these users that
had another user with the same
account in some other domains,
they couldn't log in because
we just need a unique,
short user name.
So what we've done to give you a solution
to this problem is we've created an
option called the namespace option.
And you can either use namespace
domain or namespace forest.
And if you use domain,
you'll get the usernames
the way they are now,
just the short username.
If you use the forest option,
you will get all of your usernames in the
format of domain name backslash username.
And so now all of your
usernames will be unique.
And then finally,
one thing that I want to talk about
is we've changed some of the config
files that are used for the AD plugin.
In Tiger, this was one single plist file.
Why do you care about these files?
Well, one thing is for
troubleshooting purposes,
you might want to look at them,
find out information about how
it's configured or send them to us.
But also, if you're writing scripts to
try and automate certain things,
sometimes there's pieces of
information that you're looking for.
Some of these pieces of
information are in these plists,
so it's useful to know what's where.
So in Tiger, we had just this
Active Directory dot plist.
In Leopard, this became four files.
And so we still have the
Active Directory plist,
but we now also have
Active Directory domain cache,
Active Directory domain policies,
and Active Directory dynamic data.
And what's in these files
In Active Directory PList,
most of the same information
that we had before.
So it's all of your
plug-in config options.
So if you set things either
in the GUI or with DSConfigAD,
you've got all of that
information is stored here.
You also have all of
your attribute mappings.
So for example,
the mapping that we're going to use
this particular OID number to be this
particular attribute in Active Directory.
The computer account information
is also stored in here.
So the computer account name,
the computer account password,
so the trust account information is here.
The MCX template that we actually
insert into every user account,
things like the default
doc and stuff like that,
is stored in here.
And we also store the
next password change date,
so the next time that the AD plugin's
going to change the password.
And one thing that a lot of people
don't think about here is that this
file is actually something you can edit.
So if you want to change
your attribute mappings,
you can do that.
If you want to change the MCX template,
One thing to also keep in mind here,
though, is for imaging machines,
you do not want this file to be
in a state where the machine is
bound when you image your machines.
Because otherwise,
every single machine that you
image is going to think it's
the same computer account.
And while in Leopard, since we have,
by default, your password's going
to change in 14 days,
the first time the first
computer changes its password,
every other computer in your domain that
you've bound from this image is going
to fall off of Active Directory because
its password just got changed on it.
So that's probably a less than
optimal sort of experience.
So make sure that when
you're imaging machines,
image them.
Go ahead,
set all the options and stuff that
you want in AD before you image.
But actually,
image with the machine unbound,
and then use a post-flight script or
something to actually do the binding.
The Active Directory domain
cache is just a cache file.
It's got all the information about each
domain that you have in your forest,
your NetBIOS name, your DNS name,
your LDAP partition.
And the domain policies files,
same thing.
It's just the domain policy cache
for each domain in the forest.
And finally,
the dynamic data file is useful
primarily for trying to figure out
what is the last thing that the
Active Directory plugin has done
as far as what servers has it used,
what servers has it configured.
So for troubleshooting purposes,
this is someplace that you might want
to look if you're trying to figure out
what server is the AD plugin talking to.
So to give you just a quick
example of a few things that
are actually in these files,
in that Active Directory dot plist file,
One reason you might want to go here
is the pass interval and namespace
options that we talked about earlier.
If you do a dsconfigad-show,
we actually don't report what
settings these are set to with
that command at the moment.
So if you want to know
what those are set to,
you can look in the plist.
Another thing that you can do here
is you can check that password change
date if you want to see when the
computer's going to change its password.
Or for purposes of testing
and troubleshooting and so on,
if you just want to try to make
the password change happen soon,
well, right now,
you can't supply a number under one day.
And if you don't want
to wait for a whole day,
you can just go in there,
change that password change
date to something much sooner.
And then one thing you'll want to do
here is after you make this change,
anytime you edit the
Active Directory.plist file,
you want to read the name of the file.
So you want to restart
Directory Services,
but not such that it's going to
rewrite the config file on you,
because you just changed it.
So you want to basically do a
kill nine on Directory Services.
And then, like I was talking before,
an example of what you might use the
dynamic data plist for is you might want
to know what the last used server is.
You want to know what was the last
global catalog server that you talked to,
or for a particular domain,
which domain controllers
am I actually using?
Sometimes you might want to know, well,
am I using the one that's closest to me,
or am I using one that's
halfway across the world,
or so on.
So now that we've talked about
Directory Services troubleshooting in
general and Active Directory plugin
troubleshooting in general,
I want to give you five of what we think
are some of the most common scenarios
that you guys might run into when you're
running Leopard with Directory Service.
And these are all applicable
to the Golden Triangle,
Magic Triangle,
Augmented Records setups that
we've been talking about.
So the first one is an issue that it's
not entirely Directory Service related.
It's really more of a Kerberos
client sort of an issue.
But you hit it when you're using
the Active Directory plugin mostly.
So we're going to talk about it here.
And this is issues that you might
hit if you're doing multi-domains
in a multi-domain forest with
Active Directory and you're
trying to do Kerberos cross-realm.
So the configuration would
be your multi-domain forest.
You've got a user in some domain
trying to access Kerberized
resources in some other domain.
So for example,
I'm in the engineering domain.
I want to access some resources
in the marketing domain.
And the problem that you might see is
you might get some sort of message like,
"Can't find KDC." Or you might try to,
for example, connect to the file server,
and instead of just happily
popping up your file share like
you expect and everything working
the way Kerberos normally does,
instead the authentication window
comes up and you've fallen back
to something other than Kerberos.
So before we talk about
the solutions here,
there's two main categories
that this tends to fall into.
Either you have a unified
or a disjoint AD forest.
So how do you tell which one you've got?
If you've got a unified forest,
then you have your DNS domain
matches your Kerberos realm.
So if your DNS is foo.apple.com,
your Kerberos realm is foo.apple.com.
Pretty simple.
And this is really the
category that most people's
Active Directory domains fall into.
If you've got a disjoint
Active Directory for us,
though, then you're in a situation where
things are a little more complicated.
Because your DNS domain
might be foo.apple.com,
and your Kerberos realm is
something else like bar.apple.com.
Or, in a lot of cases,
you have some shortened version of
your Kerberos realm as your DNS name,
so you might have apple.com,
and then your Kerberos realm
might be foo.apple.com.
So the two don't match.
One thing to look for here is that
disjoint Active Directory for us are--may
not be supported by Microsoft after--or
even including in 2008 Server.
So Microsoft may actually require
you just for their own purposes in
terms of getting support for them,
nothing to do with Macs
or anything like that,
may be telling you to migrate away
from this kind of a configuration.
For most people,
it was put in place as a NT4 migration.
AID, but Microsoft may be telling
people that they have to
actually migrate away from this.
So if you've got a unified
Active Directory forest,
the first thing you want to do is, well,
let's just go look at
your Kerberos records.
So if you remember,
we said all your Kerberos records
are stored in that DSLocal
config node on your local client.
And what you may find is that for
the particular domain that you're
trying to contact for resources,
you may find that there actually
is no config information for it.
The reason for this is since we've
gone to an on-demand configuration
style for the AD plugin,
if we haven't already
talked to that domain,
we don't have a config for it.
So you could work around this
by IDing some user so that we
actually talk to that domain.
But generally speaking, you know,
you don't want to tell your users, "Okay,
yeah, if you want to connect to
that file server over there,
go launch terminal,
type ID some--" That generally--people
don't like that.
So what you want to do
instead is after you've bound,
you want to edit edu.mit.kubros,
and what you're going
to do is by default,
we have DNS fallback set to no.
And that actually needs to be set
to no during our bind process.
But you're going to want to set
this to DNS fallback equals yes.
What this will do is it will let
the Kerberos client actually go out,
search DNS for Kerberos,
and then it will find all the
information for this other domain,
even though we haven't contacted it
for directory service and we haven't
created Kerberos records for it.
It'll just find that information for you,
and you won't need directory
service to actually write out a
particular config file for it.
Now if you have an edit in this file,
if you don't want this to
get overwritten the next time
that Active Directory plugin
goes and reconfigures itself,
also make sure you delete the pound
lines at the beginning so that it
does not get regenerated on you.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, the second troubleshooting scenario
we're going to talk about is
a slow binding issue with the
2003 R2 Active Directory schema.
So how many people here use 2003
R2 on your Active Directory domain?
How many people don't yet but
are going to upgrade to it
at some point in the future?
Okay, these are for you.
So the configuration, as I said,
is Active Directory 2003
with the R2 schema.
And what you'll see as symptoms is,
especially if you have a large domain,
lots of domain controllers,
you may get some pretty slow binding.
It will bind eventually, maybe,
but it could be pretty slow.
And you may also have your
AD administrator come to you and say,
"You know, I'm getting these really
expensive LDAP queries.
I'm seeing some high
CPU utilization on the server.
It kind of looks like
it's coming from the Macs.
What's going on?"
Well,
what's happening is there's an attribute
that is in the R2 schema that is
an attribute that we actually use.
It's called MAC address.
And what we use MAC address for is, well,
to help us identify computers.
Mostly we do it for MCX settings,
but when we bind,
we check to see if a computer
with that particular MAC address
already exists in Active Directory.
If it is, well,
we just join that account.
If it's not,
we're going to create a new one.
Now, if you haven't extended your schema,
you don't have this,
and so we can't edit it.
We just move on.
And in that case,
so if you have Windows 2000
or 2003 Server,
we just query for it.
The AD Server says,
"I don't even have that attribute.
Go away." So it's a real simple,
quick query.
It fails fast, basically.
If you have the 2003 R2 schema, though,
we actually have a case where
Microsoft has added it to the schema,
but has not added it to
the computer object class.
So we can never actually populate
it for a computer account.
So we're never actually going
to have any records with it,
but it exists in the schema.
So what this means is every time that you
bind an Active Directory plugin client,
we're going to be searching
for this attribute,
and Active Directory is going
to search every single record
in your Active Directory.
So we're going to have a few records
in your Active Directory forest.
And for those of you that
have a few million records,
it's going to take a little while.
And so this causes problems during
binding because we're sitting and
waiting for these servers and sometimes
they take so long we think they've
just disappeared off the face of
the earth and we go try and find
another server and try and use that.
So the solution here is
actually pretty simple.
You just want to index MAC address
so that when we actually
do this query it can say,
"Oh, no, I don't have that." You know,
it doesn't have to go
search every single record.
This is a pretty simple thing.
It's just a checkbox
in the schema snap-in.
And Microsoft has actually realized
that maybe this is a good idea.
And they've actually done
this in 2008 Server for you.
So it is something that you only
have to deal with in 2003 R2.
But you can see, well,
Obviously, it's something that, you know,
going forward,
you would want to have anyway since
Microsoft is going to do it for 2008.
So everybody that has this or is
going to upgrade to the R2 schema,
go back,
tell your AD admins to index this.
The third scenario that we're going
to talk about is where you have users
And you've got Magic Triangle,
you've set up your OD Master.
Your users can authenticate okay,
but every time you try
and edit Open Directory,
either with Workgroup
Manager or a directory app,
the authentication works,
the authorization fails, and it says,
"You don't have access to write to this."
So even diradmin won't
be able to write things.
But if you use the built-in default
root account for Open Directory,
this will still work.
So how do you fix this?
I saw a lot of hands when I asked
how many people have been to
one of my sessions before.
So what's the first thing that you
should do when you're troubleshooting
a Directory Service problem?
I have a very intelligent audience.
Actually, I like that animation.
Let's see that again.
That's fun.
You guys are all going to be
seasick when you walk out of here,
you know.
But if it helps you
remember to check your DNS,
it's worth it.
So yeah,
usually the cause of this is that you're
missing either forward or reverse DNS.
And a common culprit for this
is you bound with the AD plugin,
you saw that it created a
DNS record for you in AD,
which it did, but it didn't create that
reverse pointer record.
And if you don't have that record,
all manner of things Kerberos related
and other things are going to fail.
So actually for servers that are--whether
you're bound to Active Directory,
Open Directory, whatever,
my recommendation is do not rely
on dynamic DNS registration.
Go manually put in that
registration so you know it's there.
The other thing that can cause
this is you might be missing the
root DSC file in /etc/open/ldap,
in which case you can actually
just populate that by doing
slap-config/populate-root-dsc.
You do, in fact,
actually probably need to be root,
so either put a pseudo in front
of that or run it as root.
Another problem that I want to talk
about is just some general issues you
may run into with augmented records.
And so you may have services that
are looking for some information
that's in an augmented record
and they're not working right.
They maybe give you some
weird information--you know,
weird errors because they're not finding
the information that they expect.
So what you should do in this case is
verify that Directory Services is even
seeing the augment configuration at all.
So remember, first of all,
it's only--you're going to see
this only in the search node.
So use DSCL, go through the search node,
try to read the record using the
search node as opposed to the,
you know, Active Directory node or
the LDAP node and so on.
Also keep in mind,
if this is a machine that was already
bound to OD before you created
that initial augment config record,
it's not going to see the
augments until you reboot it.
So those are the two things
that usually catch people,
but once you've done that,
then you can go ahead and you
can actually make sure that your
Augment Config record is created
correctly or that your actual
Augment records are correct.
But these are the two things
that usually catch people.
And finally...
How many people here try to automate
their Active Directory binding process?
Post-flight scripts or so on?
Okay.
So you use DSConfigAD to do your binding,
and there's two common problems
that people hit with this.
And they have the same symptom,
which is DSConfigAD acts
like it's binding okay.
You don't get any errors.
Everything looks good.
And then nothing works.
Like you try to look up users in
Active Directory or authenticate
and nothing's working.
So what has gone wrong?
Well, usually it's one of two things.
The first thing is that the
AD plugin is not actually enabled.
Turns out DSConfigAD can give you all
of your binding and everything like that
without the AD plugin being turned on.
So it goes ahead, binds you,
but then the AD plugin is still off.
So Directory Service is not
actually using it for anything.
So I wanted to give you some
little code snippets or script
snippets to help you do this.
These are actually all in the notes
that are on the attendees site for you.
So you don't have to try
and type these all out.
But the first thing is this information
is just in the Directory Service plist.
So you just need to set the
Active Directory key to be active.
Then you need to restart
Directory Service so
that it takes effect.
And just for human readability purposes,
you may want to convert this back
to XML1 format instead of binary.
But that's purely optional.
And the second issue is just that
Active Directory may not have
been added to your search path.
So the way to do this is you
can use DSCL and you need to
add your Active Directory search
node to the CSP search path.
And keep in mind, if you're allowing
authentication from all domains,
this will be
Active Directory all domains.
If you're not doing that and you're
specifying each individual domain,
you will need to do this for each of the
domains that you're going to specify.
So it'll be like
Active Directory/yourdomain.
And then you also may need to create
the CSP search path on search policy.
So you can just do these two commands.
That will take care of adding
things to your search path.
So just to wrap up,
we talked about extending
directory services.
We have augmented records in Leopard
to help you solve some of these
problems that we could not fix
with just Magic Triangle and that
let you do them without having
to go through schema extension and
get all of your AD admins buy-in.
And just to remind you,
we now support this in advanced server
mode with Workgroup Manager as of 10.5.3.
And for troubleshooting,
remember we have variable debug levels,
so you may need to adjust
the logging level up or down.
Your Kerberos config information
is now stored in DSLocal,
so that's where you need to look,
and that's what the information
you would want to send to us
if you're filing a bug report.
DNS, DNS, DNS.
I could say it all day,
it's that important.
And finally,
if you're having Kerberos issues,
you can adjust a lot of these things
by actually editing edu.mit.kerberos.
For more information,
you can talk to Mark.
I will actually be in the
Directory Service Lab immediately
following this session.